let s talk about your family : 
pre intermediate
intermediate


your exepected to answer the following question by the end of this lesson:

1.what s your first name
2.what s your family name
3.are you an only child
4.where were you born
5.where are you originally from
6.are you part of very close family
7.do you look like your father or mother
8.in character who do you take after
9.can you tell me a short biography of yourself

name and family name:
your parents give you a first name

your family name usually called your surname is the one that all the family have

your fullname is all the names you have

talking about your family

my parents got married 25 years ago . i ve got two brothers and a sister .

so there are 6 of us in my family. my brothers are twins and they are three years younger than me. i m the oldest and i take after my father .

my sister takes after my father in some ways but she looks like my mother . we re a close family . my best friend Pete is an only child. he spends a lot of time with us and he s almost one of the family.

twins = two children  born to one mother at the same time

take after sb = to be similar to sb in appearance and / or character

look like sb = when sb s appearance is similar to sb else

close family = we have a good relationship or see each other a lot

an only child = without brothers or sisters

پاراگراف رو با دیفینیشن ها بنویسم

spotlight : نکته
how old are you ?
Pete is 22 years old
his brother is older than him. he s 23
his sister is younger than him. she s 20
alf s the oldest in the family
caren s the youngest in the family


point: 
i m originally from america but i live in canada
i was born and raised in america
i was born in america but raised in canada
i was born in america but my family moved to canada when i was



in some parts of the word couples may live together but do not get married . in this relationship they often call each other their partner:
i ve been living with my partner for almost 4 years.


where the child or children lives with just one parent, especially after the parents have seprated, these are sometimes called single-parent famillies:
i brought up/raised my three children as a single parent